[Music]
ha what a lovely day for a picnic and
what a lovely cake the first bite is
always the best we can see you up there
funky and lucky you better get down from
there it's dangerous
[Music]
they sure are high up yeah yeah they
must be you know what I actually don't
know how high that is hmm I wonder how
do you measure a tree without having to
climb it well there are lots of tools we
can measure with rulers and mystics and
measuring tapes are just a few measuring
tools but you can even use your hand to
measure different things this flunky is
8 pounds tall of course different
people's hands are also different sizes
my hand is different in size than stamp
is Paul that's why we need specific
measuring tools to determine size or
weight for example the little lines on
the ruler are always the same size no
matter whose ruler you use that's
because everyone has agreed to a
standard that says a centimeter is a
centimeter rulers you might find in your
pencil case look like this they have
numbers from 0 to 30 centimeters meter
sticks look like this they are longer
and have numbers V 0 to 100 centimeters
tape measures are often even longer
a centimeter is the same no matter which
tool it's on
it's good for measuring the height of a
pencil or a dog or even your
neighborhood henchmen look how tall I am
you're so heavy oh these tools show us
how small units of measurement can make
up one big unit of measurement when we
measure something big like a tree we can
measure it using meters it's easier to
count one meter 2 meters 3 meters than
having to count the height of a tree in
centimeters can you imagine how long
that would take
[Music]
yeah but a big tree is too tall and
dangerous for me to climb how would I
measure it in real life what if I told
you that you could measure a tree
without having to leave your ground
teach me well stampy which tree do you
want to measure that one can you don't
stand right at the base of it then yeah
sure I'll hold the ruler in front of me
with my arm out straight now I'll close
one eye back away from the tree slowly
until the tree and the ruler appear to
be the same size next keeping my arms
straight I'll turn the rule of sideways
so that it runs level with the ground
I'll keep the end of the ruler lined up
with the tree trunk now stampy can you
walk away from the tree trunk out to the
other end of your ruler you could stop
now stampy stay right there
now using a measuring tape I'll measure
the distance along the ground between
the actual tree trunk and the place
where you are standing and this will
give you the tree height whoa
this tree is 6 meters and 23 centimeters
tall if you have a tree in your back or
front yard see if you and one of your
parents can measure how tall it is and
remember always keep wondering
[Music]
hey why don't we celebrate getting the
second wonderment with some cake do you
have any on you cake yuck that's way too
sweet what we need is a big pot of
mushroom stew mushrooms